thousands of young survivors from the
Nova music festival in Israel are facing
significant mental health challenges two
months after the deadly Hamas attacks on
October the 7th more than 360 partygoers
were murdered there and another 40 were
taken hostage there's concern that the
scale of psychological support needed is
greater than the state can provide so
now trained volunteers are setting up
their own centers to offer that help
well our correspondent Anna Foster has
visited one region in the north of Tel
Aviv Their Eyes Were Hollow they they
didn't look alive they couldn't look at
us they could they would shake they
couldn't eat they couldn't drink the
evil that these people met is
incomprehensible and and I told them
early on as as dark the darkness you saw
we're going to bring the light we're
going to help you believe in yourselves
and in others again let me show you
exactly
what people come here for because
there's a whole section you can see on
these bean bags people they come out and
sometimes they talk or they can use it
as a quiet space if they want to there
are different workshops that people do
again they don't always need to be
talking about what happened to them that
day or what they feel sometimes it's
just a a way to focus on something to to
keep your hands busy or to keep your
brain busy and it's a place where people
can talk they can get therapy sessions
they can really
have an opportunity in this space
surrounded by people who went through
the same thing as them to to work
through some of the trauma of that day
I'm leor galb um I'm 24 from beta and uh
I survived the massacre that happened at
the an NOA
Festival um at
6:30 uh in the morning we started
hearing Rockets uh flying above our
heads started running towards the open
field
U we didn't know where we're going we
didn't know what's happening we just
heard automatic gunshots uh all around
us um and then we managed to uh get
inside Yuda and galit's car they had a
big car and they were also running away
from the massacre uh and they basically
saved us they got us to safety and
that's what happened to me and that's a
lot for anybody to go through and and so
you come here here and how does being
here help you process all of that it's
been a hard time for me listening to
music since the Nova festival and since
like it it's almost have been two months
uh and I only feel comfortable hearing
music with the concerts um and with the
the artists that come here and um I
really feel that the therapists are here
to help and to listen and to be here
with us itamar Cohen is a clinical
psychologist he lives in London but flew
here as soon as he could to help what
kind of stories are people telling you
about what they they saw and they lived
through that
day
um people
here
seen tremendous amount of
pain um some of them were extremely
close to not being here um really people
that been
chased that needed to run
through you know if you would say a
mindfield they didn't know where it
comes from and what about you how are
you because obviously these stories that
that you're hearing and I know this is
your job but they are really distressing
stories here all the therapists are
working together we have time to see
process to speak about the challenges to
bring ourself in our vulnerabilities our
fears so we have a space to to work that
through and and to strengthen each other
and that's that's quite a lot in these
times so it helps you as well oh
tremendously Anna Foster reporting there